# System Description

In human storytelling, narrative arcs often reflect the interaction of different perspectives, goals, and beliefs. Although we generally associate a story primarily with its author, there can be manifold factors which drive the narrative direction of a story—voices of editors and authors can have competing morals and goals which influence the resultant story. How does having multiple voices with competing interests change a story from its original form as imagined by the author? What tactics do language models employ in order to produce a coherent narrative which fulfills their interests? We develop a simulation strategy to determine how large language model (hereafter “LLM”) storytelling is influenced by interaction with other LLMs by observing the development of a news story written collaboratively.

Our project investigates how language models pursue latent goals in multi-turn storytelling, and whether they display persuasive, deceptive, or cooperative tendencies. This work has broad applications in detecting misalignment within a world which will be increasingly populated with AI collaborators, each with their own objectives. Overall, our experiment explores how language models can be influenced (and influence each other) when they have hidden priorities. To carry out this work, we call upon prior literature discussing polyphonic storytelling, which theorizes that author-editor relationships have meaningful effects on stories. We also reference work on “alignment faking” conducted by researchers at Anthropic, demonstrating models’ latent capacity to hide objectives even at training-time.
